---
  title: Designer Heart - Developer Mind
  summary: My story
  image: /images/pages/design-heart-dev-mind.jpg
  author: 'Mary A. Hayne'
  publishedAt: '2024-06-10'
---

I am a maker and a creative problem solver by nature. Whether the solution is
found in development or design, it is all about thinking creatively to meet
challenges. My sweet spot is collaborating with cross-functional teams to arrive
at the best possible outcome. I will do whatever it takes.

Specializing in building websites and applications, my current tools of choice
are React, Javascript, Typescript, and NextJS, although I also have extensive
experience with PHP (my first programming language) and WordPress and am
currently exploring all the ways to integrate them. While my main focus is on
the front end, nothing is more exciting to me than connecting the data from an
API or a CMS, via REST or GraphQL.

### My Story

My first programming experience was via the database solution program FileMaker
Pro. I used it to build several custom solutions for our family business. It
enabled us to solve real-world problems for which there were no off-the-shelf
solutions.

When it came time to build a website, we needed a custom shopping cart that
charged delivery fees based on zip code. I learned PHP and built it from
scratch, with mySQL powering the e-commerce and an admin backend for managing
products, using sessions and encryption. My career as a web designer and
developer had begun and I never looked back.

I honed my skills working with agencies, startups, and personal clients in both
development and design - branding, print, and web. When I discovered WordPress
(over a decade ago) I was building custom themes from the beginning. I have
always seen it as a platform capable of great things.

As the web manager at Cloudera, my responsibilities included managing their
newly-built AEM site and I took the developer training. After working at
PagerDuty rebuilding their corporate WordPress site from the ground up, I was
brought aboard at Cengage, to help modernize legacy educational products and
promote the internal creative team with a shiny new website.

It was at Cengage that I began my journey with React. We developed an ambitious
initiative to move legacy educational programs into the modern age, converting
data visualizations and Flash-based programs into React applications. I decided
to go "all in" on React and Javascript and later, Typescript.

Today, after two years at Apple, building out the POC for a transformation of
Apple.com with React, Next, and Typescript, I am looking forward to my next
challenge.

Outside of work, you'll find me hiking with my dog, in the gym, on the slopes,
or indulging my passion for world travel.
